Amsterdam (/ˈæmstərdæm/ AM-stər-dam, UK also /ˌæmstərˈdæm/ AM-stər-DAM, Dutch: [ˌɑmstərˈdɑm] ⓘ; literally, "Dam in the Amstel") is the capital[a] and most populated city of the Netherlands. 
It has a population of 921,402 within the city proper, 1,457,018 in the urban area and 2,480,394 in the metropolitan area. 
Located in the Dutch province of North Holland, Amsterdam is colloquially referred to as the "Venice of the North", for its large number of canals, now a UNESCO World Heritage Site.
Amsterdam was founded at the mouth of the Amstel River, which was dammed to control flooding. 
Originally a small fishing village in the 12th century, Amsterdam became a major world port during the Dutch Golden Age of the 17th century, when the Netherlands was an economic powerhouse. 
Amsterdam was the leading centre for finance and trade, as well as a hub of secular art production. 
In the 19th and 20th centuries, the city expanded and new neighborhoods and suburbs were built. 
The city has a long tradition of openness, liberalism, and tolerance. 
Cycling is key to the city's modern character, and there are numerous biking paths and lanes spread throughout.
Amsterdam's main attractions include its historic canals; the Rijksmuseum, the state museum with Dutch Golden Age art; the Van Gogh Museum; the Dam Square, where the Royal Palace of Amsterdam and former city hall are located; the Amsterdam Museum; Stedelijk Museum, with modern art; the Concertgebouw concert hall; the Anne Frank House; the Scheepvaartmuseum, the Natura Artis Magistra; Hortus Botanicus, NEMO, the red-light district and cannabis coffee shops. 
The city is known for its nightlife and festival activity, with several nightclubs among the world's most famous. 
Its artistic heritage, canals and narrow canal houses with gabled façades, well-preserved legacies of the city's 17th-century Golden Age, have attracted millions of visitors annually.
The Amsterdam Stock Exchange, founded in 1602, is considered the oldest "modern" securities market stock exchange in the world. 
As the commercial capital of the Netherlands and one of the top financial centres in Europe, Amsterdam is considered an alpha world city. 
The city is the cultural capital of the Netherlands. 
Many large Dutch institutions have their headquarters in the city. 
Many of the world's largest companies are based here or have established their European headquarters in the city, such as technology companies Uber, Netflix, and Tesla. 
In 2022, Amsterdam was ranked the ninth-best city to live in by the Economist Intelligence Unit and 12th on quality of living for environment and infrastructure by Mercer. 
The city was ranked 4th place globally as a top tech hub in 2019. 
The Port of Amsterdam is the fifth largest in Europe. 
The KLM hub and Amsterdam's main airport, Schiphol, is the busiest airport in the Netherlands, third in Europe, and 11th in the world. 
The Dutch capital is one of the most multicultural cities in the world, with about 180 nationalities represented. 
Immigration and ethnic segregation in Amsterdam is a current issue.
Amsterdam's notable residents throughout its history include painters Rembrandt and Vincent van Gogh, 17th-century philosophers Baruch Spinoza, John Locke, René Descartes, and the Holocaust victim and diarist Anne Frank.
Amsterdam has an oceanic climate (Köppen: Cfb) strongly influenced by its proximity to the North Sea to the west, with prevailing westerly winds.
Amsterdam, as well as most of the North Holland province, lies in USDA Hardiness zone 8b. 
Frosts mainly occur during spells of easterly or northeasterly winds from the inner European continent. 
Even then, because Amsterdam is surrounded on three sides by large bodies of water, as well as having a significant heat-island effect, nights rarely fall below −5 °C (23 °F), while it could easily be −12 °C (10 °F) in Hilversum, 25 km (16 mi) southeast.
Summers are moderately warm with a number of hot and humid days with occasional rain every month. 
The average daily high in August is 22.1 °C (72 °F), and 30 °C (86 °F) or higher is only measured on average on 2.5 days, placing Amsterdam in AHS Heat Zone 2. 
The record extremes range from −19.7 °C (−3.5 °F) to 36.3 °C (97.3 °F). 
Days with more than 1 mm (0.04 in) of precipitation are common, on average 133 days per year.
Amsterdam's average annual precipitation is 838 mm (33 in). 
A large part of this precipitation falls as light rain or brief showers. 
Cloudy and damp days are common during the cooler months of October through March.
The University of Amsterdam (abbreviated as UvA, Dutch: Universiteit van Amsterdam) is a public research university located in Amsterdam, Netherlands. 
Established in 1632 by municipal authorities, it is the fourth-oldest academic institution in the Netherlands still in operation.
The UvA is one of two large, publicly funded research universities in the city, the other being the Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam (VU). 
It is also part of the largest research universities in Europe with 31,186 students, 4,794 staff, 1,340 PhD students and an annual budget of €600 million. 
It is the largest university in the Netherlands by enrollment. 
The main campus is located in central Amsterdam, with a few faculties located in adjacent boroughs. 
The university is organised into seven faculties: Humanities, Social and Behavioural Sciences, Economics and Business, Science, Law, Medicine, Dentistry.
Close ties are harbored with other institutions internationally through its membership in the League of European Research Universities (LERU), the Institutional Network of the Universities from the Capitals of Europe (UNICA), European University Association (EUA) and Universitas 21. 
The University of Amsterdam has produced six Nobel Laureates and five prime ministers of the Netherlands.