Seoul, officially Seoul Special City, is the capital and largest city of South Korea. 
The broader Seoul Capital Area, encompassing Gyeonggi province and Incheon Metropolitan City, emerged as the world's sixth largest metropolitan economy in 2022, trailing behind Paris, San Francisco, Los Angeles, Tokyo, and New York, and hosts more than half of South Korea's population. 
Although Seoul's population peaked at slightly over 10 million, it has gradually decreased since 2014, standing at approximately 9.97 million residents as of 2020. 
Seoul is the seat of the South Korean government.
Seoul's history traces back to 18 BC when it was founded by the people of Baekje, one of the Three Kingdoms of Korea. 
During the Joseon dynasty, Seoul was officially designated as the capital, surrounded by the Fortress Wall of Seoul. 
In the early 20th century, Seoul was occupied by the Japanese Empire, temporarily renamed "Gyeongseong." 
The Korean War brought fierce battles, with Seoul changing hands four times and leaving the city mostly in ruins. 
Nevertheless, the city has since undergone significant reconstruction and rapid urbanization.
Seoul was rated Asia's most livable city, with the second-highest quality of life globally according to Arcadis in 2015 and a GDP per capita (PPP) of approximately $40,000. 
15 Fortune Global 500 companies, including industry giants such as Samsung, LG, and Hyundai, are headquartered in the Seoul Capital Area, which has major technology hubs, such as Gangnam and Digital Media City. 
Seoul is ranked seventh in the Global Power City Index and the Global Financial Centres Index, and is one of the five leading hosts of global conferences. 
The city has also hosted major events such as the 1986 Asian Games, the 1988 Summer Olympics, and the 2010 G20 Seoul summit, in addition to three matches at the 2002 FIFA World Cup.
Seoul is geographically set in a mountainous and hilly terrain, with Bukhan Mountain positioned on its northern edge. 
Within the Seoul Capital Area lie five UNESCO World Heritage Sites: Changdeok Palace, Hwaseong Fortress, Jongmyo Shrine, Namhansanseong, and the Royal Tombs of the Joseon dynasty. 
Furthermore, Seoul has witnessed a surge in modern architectural development, with iconic landmarks including the N Seoul Tower, the 63 Building, the Lotte World Tower, the Dongdaemun Design Plaza, Lotte World, the Trade Tower, COEX, IFC Seoul, and Parc1. 
Seoul was named the World Design Capital in 2010 and has served as the national hub for the music, entertainment, and cultural industries that have propelled K-pop and the Korean Wave to international prominence.
Seoul has a humid continental (Köppen: Dwa) or humid subtropical climate (Cwa, by −3 °C or 26.6 °F isotherm), influenced by the monsoons; there is great variation in temperature and precipitation throughout the year. 
The suburbs of Seoul are generally cooler than the center of Seoul because of the urban heat island effect. 
Summers are hot and humid, with the East Asian monsoon taking place from June until September. 
August, the hottest month, has average high and low temperatures of 30.0 and 22.9 °C (86 and 73 °F) with higher temperatures possible. 
Heat index values can surpass 40 °C (104.0 °F) at the height of summer. Winters are usually cold to freezing with average January high and low temperatures of 2.1 and −5.5 °C (35.8 and 22.1 °F), and are generally much drier than summers, with an average of 24.9 days of snow annually. 
Sometimes, temperatures drop dramatically to below −10 °C (14 °F), and on some occasions as low as −15 °C (5 °F) in the mid winter period of January and February. 
Temperatures below −20 °C (−4 °F) have been recorded.
Seoul National University (SNU; Korean: 서울대학교; lit. Seoul University) is a public research university located in Seoul, South Korea. 
It is one of the SKY universities and a part of the Flagship Korean National Universities.
The university's main campus is located in Gwanak, and two additional campuses are located in Daehangno and Pyeongchang. 
The university comprises sixteen colleges, one graduate school and nine professional schools. 
The student body consists of nearly 17,000 undergraduate and 11,000 graduate students.