Chicago is the most populous city in the U.S. state of Illinois and in the Midwestern United States. 
With a population of 2,746,388, as of the 2020 census, it is the third-most populous city in the United States after New York City and Los Angeles. 
As the seat of Cook County, the second-most populous county in the U.S., Chicago is the center of the Chicago metropolitan area, often colloquially called "Chicagoland" and home to 9.6 million residents.
Located on the shore of Lake Michigan, Chicago was incorporated as a city in 1837 near a portage between the Great Lakes and the Mississippi River watershed. 
It grew rapidly in the mid-19th century.
In 1871, the Great Chicago Fire destroyed several square miles and left more than 100,000 homeless, but Chicago's population continued to grow. 
Chicago made noted contributions to urban planning and architecture, such as the Chicago School, the development of the City Beautiful movement, and the steel-framed skyscraper.
Chicago is an international hub for finance, culture, commerce, industry, education, technology, telecommunications, and transportation. 
It has the largest and most diverse finance derivatives market in the world, generating 20% of all volume in commodities and financial futures alone. 
O'Hare International Airport is routinely ranked among the world's top six busiest airports by passenger traffic, and the region is also the nation's railroad hub. 
The Chicago area has one of the highest gross domestic products (GDP) of any urban region in the world, generating $689 billion in 2018.
Chicago's economy is diverse, with no single industry employing more than 14% of the workforce.
Chicago is a major destination for tourism, including visitors to its cultural institutions, and Lake Michigan beaches. 
Chicago's culture has contributed much to the visual arts, literature, film, theater, comedy (especially improvisational comedy), food, dance, and music (particularly jazz, blues, soul, hip-hop, gospel, and electronic dance music, including house music). 
Chicago is home to the Chicago Symphony Orchestra and the Lyric Opera of Chicago, while the Art Institute of Chicago provides an influential visual arts museum and art school. 
The Chicago area also hosts the University of Chicago, Northwestern University, and the University of Illinois Chicago, among other institutions of learning. 
Professional sports in Chicago include all major professional leagues, including two Major League Baseball teams.
The city lies within the typical hot-summer humid continental climate (Köppen: Dfa), and experiences four distinct seasons.
Summers are hot and humid, with frequent heat waves. The July daily average temperature is 75.4 °F (24.1 °C), with afternoon temperatures peaking at 84.5 °F (29.2 °C). 
In a normal summer, temperatures reach at least 90 °F (32 °C) on 17 days, with lakefront locations staying cooler when winds blow off the lake. 
Winters are relatively cold and snowy. 
Blizzards do occur, such as in winter 2011.
There are many sunny but cold days. 
The normal winter high from December through March is about 36 °F (2 °C). 
January and February are the coldest months. 
A polar vortex in January 2019 nearly broke the city's cold record of −27 °F (−33 °C), which was set on January 20, 1985. 
Measurable snowfall can continue through the first or second week of April.
Spring and autumn are mild, short seasons, typically with low humidity. 
Dew point temperatures in the summer range from an average of 55.8 °F (13.2 °C) in June to 61.7 °F (16.5 °C) in July. 
They can reach nearly 80 °F (27 °C), such as during the July 2019 heat wave. 
The city lies within USDA plant hardiness zone 6a, transitioning to 5b in the suburbs.
According to the National Weather Service, Chicago's highest official temperature reading of 105 °F (41 °C) was recorded on July 24, 1934.
Midway Airport reached 109 °F (43 °C) one day prior and recorded a heat index of 125 °F (52 °C) during the 1995 heatwave.
The lowest official temperature of −27 °F (−33 °C) was recorded on January 20, 1985, at O'Hare Airport.
Most of the city's rainfall is brought by thunderstorms, averaging 38 a year. 
The region is prone to severe thunderstorms during the spring and summer which can produce large hail, damaging winds, and occasionally tornadoes.
Like other major cities, Chicago experiences an urban heat island, making the city and its suburbs milder than surrounding rural areas, especially at night and in winter. 
The proximity to Lake Michigan tends to keep the Chicago lakefront somewhat cooler in summer and less brutally cold in winter than inland parts of the city and suburbs away from the lake.
Northeast winds from wintertime cyclones departing south of the region sometimes bring the city lake-effect snow.
The University of Chicago (UChicago, Chicago, or UChi) is a private research university in Chicago, Illinois, United States. 
Its main campus is in the Hyde Park neighborhood on Chicago's South Side, near the shore of Lake Michigan about 7 miles (11 km) from the Loop.
The university is composed of the undergraduate College of the University of Chicago and four graduate research divisions: Biological Science, Humanities, Physical Science, and Social Science, which also include various organized institutes.
In addition, the university includes eight professional schools, which also house academic research: the Booth School of Business; Crown Family School of Social Work, Policy, and Practice; Divinity School; Graham School of Continuing Liberal and Professional Studies; Harris School of Public Policy; Law School; Pritzker School of Medicine; and Pritzker School of Molecular Engineering. 
The university has additional campuses and centers in London, Paris, Beijing, Delhi, and Hong Kong, as well as in downtown Chicago.
University of Chicago scholars have played a major role in the development of many academic disciplines, including economics, law, literary criticism, mathematics, physics, religion, sociology, and political science, establishing the Chicago schools of thought in various fields. Chicago's Metallurgical Laboratory produced the world's first human-made, self-sustaining nuclear reaction in Chicago Pile-1 beneath the viewing stands of the university's Stagg Field. Advances in chemistry led to the "radiocarbon revolution" in the carbon-14 dating of ancient life and objects. 
The university research efforts include administration of Fermi National Accelerator Laboratory and Argonne National Laboratory, as well as the Marine Biological Laboratory. 
The university is also home to the University of Chicago Press, the largest university press in the United States.
The university's students, faculty, and staff has included 100 Nobel laureates. 
The university's faculty members and alumni also include 10 Fields Medalists, 4 Turing Award winners, 52 MacArthur Fellows, 26 Marshall Scholars, 53 Rhodes Scholars, 27 Pulitzer Prize winners, 20 National Humanities Medalists, 29 living billionaire graduates, and 8 Olympic medalists.